add: eviction policy Dragonfly (#46)
aiven/aiven-docs: docs/products/dragonfly/howto/eviction-policy-df.md

---
title: Data eviction policy in Aiven for Dragonfly
sidebar_label: Data eviction policy
---

> Aiven for Dragonfly® optimizes cache memory management with a data eviction policy, ensuring efficient memory usage and optimal performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aiven for Dragonfly® optimizes cache memory management with a low-overhead data eviction policy.
```
sounds better imo. Original sounds like we're trying too hard to oversell it. But up to you.

Author: Updated to the suggestion.

## Understand data eviction policy

Aiven for Dragonfly® uses a variation of the 2Q key eviction algorithm, which
intelligently manages cache by deciding which data to retain or evict based on usage
patterns. This system uses two distinct buffers to streamline cache memory management:

- **Protected buffer:** Stores frequently accessed items, indicating their higher value
  for caching due to repeated use.
- **Probationary buffer:** Temporarily stores new or less frequently accessed items.
  These items move to the protected buffer upon repeated access, indicating their growing
  significance.

This dual-buffer approach ensures resilience against fluctuating access patterns,
maintaining cache efficiency without additional memory overhead per item.
It's a key factor in Dragonfly's ability to keep valuable data accessible while managing
less critical data efficiently.

## Enable `cache_mode` via Aiven Console

> By default, `cache_mode` in Aiven for Dragonfly is disabled, providing basic caching.

Reviewer: `cache_mode` is indeed disabled by default, but that means that no caching is used. So as soon as `maxmemory` is reached, writes will fail with an OOM exception.

Author: Updated text.
